Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. With a clear mind and complete contemplation, I
would
like to ask Ms. Yen about a question regarding my
feelings. I have feelings for an
artist in Ho Chi Minh City, but
I have never met him in person. My family
knows I love him and is preventing
me from meeting him. There is also someone
who likes me, but I only see them as
friends. I have explained to them that
my feelings for them are just
friendship, but they don't listen. They
still care for me and treat me like a lover, even when
we go out and they hold my hand.
Sometimes I try to accept
their feelings, but I don't have any
feelings for them. I love the
artist. I don't know what the relationship
between the artist and the friend who is
pursuing me was in a past life.
This is the first point of your question.
Respectfully, to all esteemed Dharma friends and to
Ms. Tra
Mi, you love an artist, you have
feelings for an artist in
Ho Chi
Minh City, but you have never met him.
Now, with a clear mind and complete contemplation...  Let me tell you
this: That artist could
n't possibly be someone so busy he doesn't
have time to eat. So if he
loved you, he would have come to see you and
done everything he could to win
you over. That is, if he loved you, he'd
cross rivers and mountains for you. But if he didn't
love you, he'd live next door to you and never
pay attention to you. You see?
So, that artist doesn't love you.
He's just using those
online comments to talk to you to ease his sadness. And
sometimes, it's
not even because he's sad, because he
could have many other friends and he'd
still text them. So, it's true that in
this day and age, you guys suffer because of
someone who flirts with you. A few
online comments and you're completely smitten.
Where is that person? A few words are
sent online, a message, and you
lose sleep and appetite just because of those words. That's how it is.
Artists have plenty of good quotes, right?
Then, even if he's not an artist, just knowing how to
use a phone to flirt is easy;
anyone can do that. He's a really
good flirt, you see? So
you need to be smart. Let's
move on from that artist and look at the guy next to him.
What good qualities does he have?
Can he help you in your
life as a couple? Get to know him
thoroughly. As the old saying goes, "real rice,
real rice." The other one is fake rice,
fake rice, you haven't seen any rice yet. So
you need to reconsider. Ask that artist
if he really loves you.
Then, let's meet.
Don't be fooled by his words; it might only
cost you a little money, but if he does,
you might lose your virginity.
That's why we,
as women, have already
experienced our youth, so let's
not be impulsive. If we are impulsive,
we will suffer great losses.
Therefore, we need to investigate
deeply, and if a person...  If someone has
feelings for you,
you can tell right away from their way of speaking and behaving.
Otherwise, if we just
daydream about a single sentence, we know
we're very infatuated,
and we might end
up with unrequited love. If
we let
our feelings become too deep, we'll
naturally turn ourselves into puppets.
Some people say to you, "
Accept that you're just his mistress."
But what makes you
blindly accept that? You're throwing your whole life
away just to be someone's mistress?
No, no, that's not right. You have to have
your own value, you have to have your own worth. A girl should
be pampered a
little, pampered, and then come back. Sometimes
they might even beat you up, let
alone when you're in love and you're not
pampered anymore.
What will you become then? A maid, a
mother, and the
main breadwinner?
You're doomed, right?  So,
she's not saying that the
boyfriend is bad, but whether he's good or
not depends on one's own discernment. If
you're not discerning,
others will treat you badly. But
if you are discerning,
others will treat you kindly
because if you are discerning, you will
choose kind people, and if
someone isn't kind to you,
you'll leave them immediately. That's why
you should treat others kindly. So,
you need to
reconsider this. Talking about past lives and relationships is already a
deep understanding in this life. And that's not even
considering the other guy or the karmic connection you have
with him. We shouldn't
focus too much on that; instead,
we should think about our present situation to
make the
best choices. As for our lives,
we really need to practice self-cultivation to
transform our karmic forces.
We still have a very long life
ahead of us.  We need a lot of merit
to serve this life,
so even if you know what your past life was like,
you need to practice to transform it.
And whatever your past life was like must be
related to the present to
transform the present. If you
've already noticed the
negative things happening to you in the present,
you should let go of the opportunities that are
n't good and
develop the opportunities that
you can control
so that you can have a
better outcome. I wish you the
wisdom to find someone who truly
loves you. Regarding your
second point: You're living with your
grandparents, but they often scold and beat you. Your grandfather often
uses harsh words
with you, but they often spoil your younger brother and
rarely scold him.
Your brother is pampered
but is very disrespectful to his parents, and your
grandparents don't advise him. Your father
loves you very much because you don't have a happy life
with your parents like other people.  But
sometimes my father gets angry and
scolds me even when I haven't done anything wrong.
I hope you can give me advice on what to do
in this situation. Dear
friend, everyone has different karma. Some people
come to a family to collect
debts, while others come to
repay
debts. Everyone has different karmic connections, so
we receive different ways of behaving.
Parents may treat their children equally within the family.
Parents may treat
all their children equally, meaning
they have a very
equal connection with their parents.
If parents love one person and hate another, it
's because the parents owe them a debt. If we are hated, it's
because we owe
them a debt. Therefore,
we are hated. Here, I think this way so
as not to blame our grandparents or
parents, but to recognize our own karma.
Therefore, we
must practice
morality in our lives.  In
this life, you owe your grandparents because they
raised you, not the other way around. So,
in this life, you owe them.
Therefore, you should practice
karma by repaying their kindness, which means helping them as
much as possible. That's how you repay your debt. As
for the karma that has
caused them to dislike and
hate you, you must be patient and
tolerant. There's a way: if
someone cherishes something, cherish that same thing they cherish, and they
will cherish
you. For example, if someone
cherishes their cup, cherish it. Then,
take care of their cup for them, and they will cherish
you. So, if your grandparents
cherish your younger brother,
cherish your brother too. Don't be jealous
of your brother. If you are jealous of
your brother, your grandparents will hate
you even more. So, cherish
your brother because he is your brother.
The way we behave to
transform our karma is that
you must contemplate cause and effect, practice
loving your grandparents, giving alms and
helping them to repay them because they
raised you and they did not
benefit you, so you must repay them.
Furthermore, you must have
filial piety. If your filial piety is
too little, you will not be
loved by others. If your filial piety is strong, you
will be
loved by others. So, if you
know that your filial piety is still too
little, if your mind is unwholesome, ungrateful, disrespectful to
those worthy of respect, and does not respect the
hierarchy of titles like siblings, children, aunts,
uncles, and
superiors, then you have practiced
bad morality in your previous life, and that is why you
are treated this way in this life. Now you must
practice more morality; you
must know how to greet your grandparents properly. If you don't see them
treat you well and you become arrogant, each
time you become arrogant and don't greet
them, your virtue diminishes.  Because
my virtue has diminished, I'm not
only treated badly by my grandparents, but later
by strangers, and
even my husband treats me badly after marriage.
Therefore, I must cultivate virtue, showing respect
and reverence. No matter where I am,
I will benefit; even after
marriage, my husband will respect me. So, cultivating
virtue is the key to being virtuous. As
for my father getting angry with me for no
reason, it's the same. He loves me,
but I haven't done anything for him. So,
when he's angry,
I have to understand him because his life
is full of things,
unlike other people's. For example, you said your father
doesn't have the closeness of
his parents, and from that, he
has some inner conflicts.
Sometimes,
he's stressed, either emotionally or from work,
so when he sees me, he might
take it out on me. But if parents
want to take it out on their children, it's also
due to the child's karma.  It's not that she's a girl, ladies and gentlemen.
Tâm
Chiếu Hoàn Quán lived with her father for her whole life and was
never scolded,
beaten, or cursed at by him.
There was only one time he told her, "Open your
mouth so I can pull out your tooth," and she closed her mouth
and got slapped. But
after the slap, he immediately
laughed. However, if
Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán had sisters and brothers,
he would be very disgusted with them and
with her younger brother. But Tâm Chiếu
Hoàn Quán was never beaten; it was always "
Dad, your command!"
He was very happy, even when
he was very old. When Tâm Chiếu Hoàn
Quán went to work, or to practice asceticism, or to do anything else, he would
call her. When Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán
answered, he would laugh, "Where are you, son?" Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán would say, "
Today I'm going to the
South." "Going to the South?!" It was as if
Tâm Chiếu Hoàn Quán was just a little child. "
What are you doing?" he would laugh happily. "
When are you going?"  It's very joyful. That's because we
cultivate a respectful and reverent heart,
so we will be loved. Therefore,
you should cultivate a respectful and reverent heart
in all circumstances. In every circumstance, if
you cultivate a respectful,
reverent, and
loving heart, you should accumulate merit
from those
actions so that you can achieve a
respectful, reverent, and loving heart.
Then you will receive blessings and
happiness from
those blessings. I also hope you will
practice and cultivate
merit to receive blessings and benefits. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
[Applause]